Reference sources -
Best,E 1955 'The astronomical knowledge of the Maori',Dominion Museum
    Monograph no.3 Wellington:Government Printer
Best,E 1959 'The Maori division of time',Dominion Museum Monograph no4.
    Wellington: Government Printer
Evans,J 1998 'The discovery of Aotearoa', Reed
Kingsley-Smith, C 1967 'Astronomers in puipuis. Maori Star lore',
    Southern Stars 22,5-10
Leather,K and Hall,Richard 2004 'Tatai Arorangi: Maori Astronomy, Work of the
    gods',Viking sevenseas nz ltd, Paraparaumu, NZ, ISBN:085467105 6
Lewis,D 1994 'We, the navigators. The ancient art of landfinding in
    the Pacific',University of Hawaii press
Orbell,M 1996 'The natural world of the Maori',David Bateman ltd
Orchiston, W 'Australian Aboriginal, Polynesian and Maori Astronomy',
    Chapter of 1996 'Astronomy before the telescope' 318-328. Editor Chris
    Walker. BCA

NOTES:
Castor not pollux labelled Whakaahu

put in matariki as a star 17499, and set magnitudes to limit 4.0 so it can be seen

stars in Matariki also randomly labelled, just to get the names in.

put tekokota(hyades) in as a constellation

Jupiter and Saturn both have names Perearau, so labelled them Jupiter Perearau_1 and
saturn Perearau_2

Venus has two names, Meremere and Tawera, as there were seperate names for the morning and evening stars.
Earth is named Papa.

In maori, double stars, optical or visual are called Pipiri, as an example Algieba is labelled Pipiri

TERMS in this program: (well some of them)
Mercury				Takero
Venus		(morning star)	Tawera
		(evening star)	Meremere
Mars				Rangiwhenua
Jupiter*			Perearau
Saturn*				Perearau
				Both Jupiter and Saturn the same conflicting name in Maori.
Altair				Poutu-te-Rangi
Antares				Rehua
S_Sco				Pekehawani
T_Sco				Whakaonge-kai
Canopus				Autahi
Procyon				Puanga Hori
Rigel				Puanga
Sirius				Takarua
Vega				Whanui
Spica				Whiti-Kapeka
Arcturus			Ruawahia
Castor/(Pollox)			Whakaahu
Aldebaran		        Taumatakuku
Orion		(whole belt)	Hao - o- rua
		(the belt)	Tau toro
		(a part)	Te Kakau
Scorpio				Ruhi
		(the tail)	Te Waka-o-Tama-Rereti
Pleiades			Matariki
Pointers			Te Taura Ra o Tainui
Maori constellation		Te-Ra-o-Tainui
Hyades				Te Kokota
Southern Cross			Mahutonga
Coal sack 			Te Patiki
Milky Way			Te ika o te rangi
Large Magellan cloud		Te Waka Ruru
Small Magellan cloud		Tuputuputu
Double stars			Pipiri
Comets				Auihi Turoa
Ecliptic 			Pito - o - Watea
Moon                            Te Marama
Sun                             Te Ra


-Te-Ra-o-Tainui: A maori constellation without a European counterpart.
This represents a waka, the belt of orion the keel,
the hyades, a claw sail and the Pleiades the bow.

-The individual star name Whakaahu either refers to A_Gem or B_Gem,thus
in this program A_Gem is taken as Whakaahu de to a second reference to
Stowell from Best(1955).

- Matariki refers to the Pleiades,
which technically, is not a single star but a star cluster made up dozens
of stars, six visible for naked eye observing, seven if great.

-WhitiKaupeka and Ruawahia are other Stowell references, A source
that does not fully correlate with Best.
